docs/usage/reading/sparse-fieldset-selection.md, before:

# Sparse Fieldset Selection

As an alternative to returning all fields (attributes and relationships) from a resource, the `fields[]` query string parameter can be used to select a subset.
Put the resource type to apply the fieldset on between the brackets.
This can be used on the resource being requested, as well as on nested endpoints and/or included resources.

Top-level example:

```http
GET /articles?fields[articles]=title,body,comments HTTP/1.1
```

Nested endpoint example:

```http
GET /api/blogs/1/articles?fields[articles]=title,body,comments HTTP/1.1
```

When combined with the `include` query string parameter, a subset of related fields can be specified too.

Example for an included HasOne relationship:

```http
GET /articles?include=author&fields[authors]=name HTTP/1.1
```

Example for an included HasMany relationship:

```http
GET /articles?include=revisions&fields[revisions]=publishTime HTTP/1.1
```

Example for both top-level and relationship:

```http
GET /articles?include=author&fields[articles]=title,body,author&fields[authors]=name HTTP/1.1
```

Note that in the last example, the `author` relationship is also added to the `articles` fieldset, so that the relationship from article to author is returned.
When omitted, you'll get the included resources returned, but without full resource linkage (as described [here](https://jsonapi.org/examples/#sparse-fieldsets)).

## Overriding

As a developer, you can force to include and/or exclude specific fields as described [here](~/usage/extensibility/resource-definitions.md).

Commit message:

Corrected terminology: relationships use left/right instead of primary/secondary

docs/usage/reading/sparse-fieldset-selection.md, after:

# Sparse Fieldset Selection

As an alternative to returning all fields (attributes and relationships) from a resource, the `fields[]` query string parameter can be used to select a subset.
Put the resource type to apply the fieldset on between the brackets.
This can be used on primary and secondary endpoints. The selection is applied on both primary and included resources.

Primary endpoint example:

```http
GET /articles?fields[articles]=title,body,comments HTTP/1.1
```

Secondary endpoint example:

```http
GET /api/blogs/1/articles?fields[articles]=title,body,comments HTTP/1.1
```

When combined with the `include` query string parameter, a subset of related fields can be specified too.

Example for an included HasOne relationship:

```http
GET /articles?include=author&fields[authors]=name HTTP/1.1
```

Example for an included HasMany relationship:

```http
GET /articles?include=revisions&fields[revisions]=publishTime HTTP/1.1
```

Example for both top-level and relationship:

```http
GET /articles?include=author&fields[articles]=title,body,author&fields[authors]=name HTTP/1.1
```

Note that in the last example, the `author` relationship is also added to the `articles` fieldset, so that the relationship from article to author is returned.
When omitted, you'll get the included resources returned, but without full resource linkage (as described [here](https://jsonapi.org/examples/#sparse-fieldsets)).

## Overriding

As a developer, you can force to include and/or exclude specific fields as described [here](~/usage/extensibility/resource-definitions.md).
